# CSE_578_Computational Investment
## Portfolio Optimization
The project is devised to help allocate portfolio for stocks/ETFs with the help of different distributions and optimization algorithms. The directory structure contains of the below .ipynb files:
- Optimization_Naive-Final: Demonstrates the performance of Naive distribution of selected stocks over a period of time
- Optimization_MVO-Final: Demonstrates Mean Variance Optimization algorithm for portfolio allocation
- Optimization_HRP-Final: Demonstrates usage of Hierarchical Risk Parity algorithm for portfolio optimization
- Data_Visualization: Presents pictorial reprenstation of stocks and their prices. Provides information about the correlation between selected stocks.
- Collate_Results: Fetches data from the pickle files generated by the first 3 (model) files. Shows graphs for comparing the 3 models for weekly and monthly data based on % returns, sharpe ratio and cumulative returns (over a period of time).
  
## Requirements:
The following imports/requirements will ensure smooth running of the project:
- Requirements:
    + Python 3.10 or higher
    + Anaconda Navigator (or any other alternative)
    + Jupyter lab/notebook navigator (or any other alternative)

- Imports:
    + pip install PyPortfolioOpt
    + pip install pandas_datareader
    + pip install matplotlib
    + pip install numpy
    + pip install pandas
    + Others, if required

## Instructions to run the project:
- Make sure you have a 'results' directory with 3 directories named 'Naive', 'HRP' and 'MVO' created inside it. (Not needed if you clone the project as it is.)
- After installing all required libraries, run the files in below sequence (preferred for generating correct pickle file outputs):
    + Optimization_Naive-Final.ipynb: In the 2nd cell of the python notebook, you could choose the ticker you want to work with and the name of the portfolio. The first list corresponds to US Stock Exchange stocks, 2nd list corresponds to US ETF tickers whereas 3rd list corresponds to FSE (Frankfurt Stock Exchange) tickers. You can select each of the lists and the portfolio names(by commenting out other lists and names) and run the file to see the desired outputs.
    + Optimization_MVO-Final.ipynb: Follow similar steps as for Optimization_Naive-Final.ipynb
    + Optimization_HRP-Final.ipynb: Follow similar steps as for Optimization_Naive-Final.ipynb
    + Data_Visualization.ipynb
    + Collate_Results.ipynb
- The results would be saved in 'results' directory and some results in the project directory 
- You can put your own list of stocks, ETFs and re-run the results for any of the models

## References:
- https://pyportfolioopt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
- Articles from Investopedia, towardsdatascience and medium



